Alzheimer’s disease is believed to affect
more than 5 million Americans.
Although the cause is not known,
the symptoms of Alzheimer’s disease result
from degradation of nerve cells
in the brain, called neurons.
The human body produces protein
fragments called amyloid.
In a healthy brain, protein fragments called
beta amyloid are broken down and eliminated.
In Alzheimer’s disease,
these fragments accumulate into hard plaque.
The plaques accumulate between nerve cells
and inhibit transmission of signals between nerve cells.
Another major change in Alzheimer’s disease
is the formation of twisted fibers
called neurofibrillary tangles inside the neurons;
formation of the tangles results in
death of these nerve cells.